In \S\ref{sec:results-interference}, we showed that a performance gain is
possible when using multiple wireless networks if the two networks are somewhat
separated in the frequency domain. From \S\ref{sec:results-mptcp}, we know that
Multipath TCP has the potential to fully saturate both of these links, and our
uplink experiments in \S\ref{sec:results-fairness} suggest that Coupled will, if
it believes it will not impact any other flow, fill its entire MAC layer share
of the network capacity. This section will attempt to determine whether Coupled
will eventually fill both its wireless links if there are no other clients on
the network at the same time.

For the uplink case, we already know that Coupled will eventually use the
capacity of the link. Because of the lack of congestion feedback discussed in
\S\ref{sec:results-fairness}, the congestion window will grow too large, meaning
there will always be packets waiting in the send queue, and thus the only
limiting factor is MAC layer fairness. If no other clients are competing for
access, the Coupled flow will gain all of the capacity, and thus it will
saturate the link. Until this lack of feedback is somehow resolved, the results
from experiments with Coupled on the uplink are predictable and not particularly
interesting.

When Coupled is running for a downlink connection, however, congestion feedback
\textbf{is} given, and so its behaviour when there are no competing flows is
interesting. To address this, we performed a series of experiments where a
parallel test was run and then immediately followed by a test where one host was
connected to both hosts and running Coupled. Due to the timing difference
between the parallel and Coupled tests, seeing identical throughput is unlikely,
but we would be surprised to see a consistent difference in throughput between
parallel and Coupled at this point.

\begin{figure}[h]
 \centering
 \input{graphs/coupled-performance.tex}
 \caption{Coupled downlink performance, idle links}\label{graph:coupled-performance}
\end{figure}

The graphs in Figure~\ref{graph:coupled-performance} show the downlink results
for the aforementioned experiments, and we can see that Coupled is following the
performance profile of the independent interfaces. This implies that Coupled is
in fact allowing Multipath TCP to eventually use a total throughput equal to the
sum of what TCP New Reno would get on each flow individually when there are no
competing flows. This means that it also works as expected on wireless networks.
% vim:textwidth=80:colorcolumn=80:spell:
